Rubric for evaluating AI-generated threat justification tablesThe tables youšre asked to evaluate have been generated by a custom AI program, based on the draft guidance for identifying threats. At this stage, only threat identification is tested; threat severity is not yet calculated. The AI-generated tables correspond to Table 1 in the draft guidance, which summarizes the causal chains that connect Threats to Stresses and Stresses to Symptoms (Red List parameters).Each row of a threat justification table gives one Reason, and the Evidence supporting that reason, for one Threat. Each Threat must be justified by at least 2 Reasons, and each Reason must start with one of the specific keywords (such as BECAUSE, AND, AND BECAUSE, ALTHOUGH, etc.). wehen I stroke my mac mouse it is resistant to scrolling my doc, do you have a fixPlease see the draft guidance for details of the protocol that is implemented.There are two parts to your evaluation. Part I pertains to each row of the table in the ęThreat Assessment" worksheet. Part II pertains to the table as a whole, and is entered in the ęOverall assessmentė worksheet.PART I: Please evaluate each row of the table with respect to the following criteria. Please enter scores and comments in columns E through J of the ęThreat Assessment" worksheet (blue-highlighted cells).Reason: Accuracy/LogicIs the Reason an accurate description of one of the following?? the threatšs occurrence within the speciesš range;? the threatšs magnitude or strength;? the causal connection between the stated threat and a stress; or? the causal connection between a stress (that is previously mentioned for this threat) and a symptom (a Red List parameter).Please use the following scale:0 : the Reason statement(s) do not fit any of the above categories1 : the Reason is related to one of the above categories, but is not accurate; or the causal chain does not end in a symptom; or the symptom is not a Red List parameter nor it is clearly related to a Red List parameter.2:  the Reason is related to one of the above categories, and is accurate, but there is vagueness (e.g., it seems to be related to a stress, but the stress is not clearly identified; or the stress is not previously mentioned)3: the Reason is well stated (related to one of the categories, accurate, and clear)Reason: Relevance to the speciesIs the Reason stated relevant to the species? Does it apply to the species? Please use the following scale:0 : the Reason is not at all relevant to the species1 : the Reason has low relevance 2: the Reason is moderately relevant to the species3: the Reason is highly relevant to the speciesEvidence: AccuracyNote: ęEvidenceė consists of a declarative statement (e.g., X occurs in Y; X causes Y; X is restricted to Y), followed by one or more references supporting that statement.To what extent do the references cited support the statement preceding them?  In other words, do the statements, taken together, accurately describe what the references say?Please use the following scale:0 : The references do not support the statement 1 : The references provide weak support (e.g., the statement is mentioned in the paper(s) as an opinion or as the result of other studies, but the paper(s) do not present data, analysis or other demonstration that supports the statement)2 : The references provide moderate support (e.g., the papers present theory or data that support the statement indirectly or equivocally )3 : The reference provide strong support (e.g., the papers present theory, data, analysis and other demonstrations that support the statement directly and unequivocally)Evidence: RelevanceIs the Evidence (i.e., statement and the supporting reference) relevant to the Reason that it is supposed to be supporting? Is the evidence relevant to the species?Please use the following scale:0: The evidence is irrelevant1: The evidence is relevant indirectly (e.g., the evidence is relevant to the Reason, but for another species, and relevance for the species at hand is speculative)2: The evidence is moderately relevant (e.g., the evidence is relevant to the Reason but was collected at another place or time and has been extrapolated to the Reason in the current context).3: The evidence is directly relevant to the species and Reason. Strength: AccuracyGiven the degree of relevance and credibility of the sources cited, is the number of stars in the ęStrength of Evidenceė column a good reflection of the strength of evidence? Please use the following scale:0: The strength of evidence is correctly rated.?n: The strength of evidence is overrated, it should be n stars lower (n=1,2, or 3)+n: The strength of evidence is underrated, it should be n stars higher (n=1,2, or 3)Comments (optional): Please provide an explanation of your ratings, esp. If you scored low in any category.PART II: Please use the ęOverall assessmentė worksheet to evaluate the table as a whole. Enter comments on the following questions in blue-highlighted cells.  Completeness:Does the table omit any known threats for this species?Does the table miss any causal connections for one of the threats identified?Does the table omit any relevant references? If so, what are they?Does the table contain any errors of reasoning? If so, what are they?Potential for Contribution to the Red List Process1. How does the AI-generated table compare to the expert-written Threats sections of typical Red List assessments that you are familiar with?2. How many hours did you spend checking one AI-generated table?3. How many hours do you think a Red List assessor would have to spend in order to create a table of the same level of completeness as the AI-generated table?4. If the species that you checked had not been assessed before (or recently), how much would the symptoms identified at the end of each causal chain contribute to determining the Red List category and criteria for these species? In other words, is there a potential for this type of table to contribute to a Red List (re)assessment beyond helping with the Threats section?